# Weeks 1 & 2
## Week 1 Readings
### Toroko Gorge
The experience of reading this poem was very calming, which checks out, given the context behind why it was written. I found that the slow way the lines appear on screen really forced me to slow down and absorb what I was reading, which became a very medative process, like being out in nature. I appreciate the headspace it puts me in, reminding me to take a minute to let myself breathe, to allow the poem to transport me to the beautiful place that inspired it.

### The Gathering Cloud
A little hard to wrap my head around at first, all the different parts of this poem demanding my attention at once, making it hard to decide where to look first. I appreciated the inclusion of definitions that really helped add to the meaning of the piece, and eventually I fell into a rhythm of reading just like with regular poetry. I liked the links it drew between the digital cloud and real life, with the inclusions of imagery especially helping me connect with it. My favourite part was when I clicked on something and a bunch of pictures of cat paws popped up on the screen. Adorable.

### First Draft of the Revolution
This was one of my favourite pieces of these selected bits of writing, I found it equal parts amusing and frustrating. The slow reveal of the chararacters was satisfying, the constant editing of the letters revealing more about the characters the more you navigate the story. The frustrating parts for me were mostly the parts you could change - sometimes I wanted to send the letter without changing the text, sometimes I wanted to change the text, but couldn't. The subtle revelations, especially about Juliette and the friar were fun to uncover, and I found myself very invested in the narrative the more I got used to its format. The writing of this one felt a lot closer to tradtional literature to me, despite its format being the most like a game.

### Shade
I played through 'Shade' a few times, frustrated by the confusing way you navigate the story, as it relys on you typing very specific commands to get the character to do things, meaning there's a lot of guess work and going around in circles. At first, I got about as far as listening to the radio and learning about the festival on the news, not knowing how to continue the story but getting absorbed in trying by typing various prompts, despite the constant 'That's not a verb I recognise' responses. I ended up just spamming the words 'listen' and 'wait' in effort to progress the story until giving up and looking at an online forum for solutions, which finally gave me enough of a hint to continue with the story, which became an eerie, surrealist narrative. While I think this story could still work as a piece of print lit, the interactivity of it adds a lot to the story, as, by having a direct hand in progressing the story, it makes the reader feel as if they are a part of it, something I think E-lit does exceptionally well.

## Reflections on the E-lit Collection
### Volume 1 - Soliloquy
I was initially drawn to this piece because of the title - a soliloquy is the act of speaking one's thought's aloud, especially in a performance or play. I found it so cool how the author, who he describes himself as 'the most boring writer that ever lived', wore a hidden tape recorder for a whole week and then transcribed everything he said. Apparently, the piece was also a gallery exhibit and a book, which I find interesting, as I was under the impression that E-lit was usually written for the purpose of being a piece of digital writing. However, the way that it's structured still helps it hold up as a piece of E-lit, I think, especially as it has an interactive aspect. You can only read one line at a time by mousing over the page, forcing you to kind of just fill in the blanks with your brain. It reminded me of sitting in a crowded place like a cafe and getting small snippets of people's conversations and wanting to know the full story, which I enjoyed a lot. Mundanity is one of my favourite things to replicate in my writing, and apparently this author is the same.
### Volume 2 - Entre Ville
'Entre Ville' was such a lovely read, I love how domestic it felt. The description of the piece says it was written about the author's experience of getting to know their neighbourhood on a sensory level after moving there. It felt a lot like being shown around that neighbourhood, with the intimate poetry and prose and the way you navigate the website making it just like seeing the world through someone else's eyes. I'd say it's a piece of E-lit, as it uses the medium to its advantage, the non-linear way of reading it, the iteractive elements, and the different animations making it feel a lot more immersive than just a regular poetry collection. 
### Volume 3 - Mastering the Art of French Cooking 
I went into this one without reading the description, and genuinely thought my computer was glitching out on me. It took a little bit for me to realise what the piece was, and slowly, I was able to make a little bit of sense out of some of it, only able to read a few words at a time because of how fast they change and how hard it was to stay focused on one part of the screen. Although there were no real sentences or way to read it 'properly', I was still able to get a general idea of what was being said, almost like looking at a piece of visual art. Again, this piece is very much a piece of E-literature, as it heavily relies on the digital format to tell the story, which, when I went back and read the description, I found was about interconnectedness, inspired by the subject matter of the original works it's comprised of and the difficulty of reading them.
### Volume 4  - How to Rob a Bank
This was a super fun piece of E-lit to interact with. you really get a good sense of who the characters are without it having to be spelled out explicitly to you, and the subtle bits of humour and the way its paced make it really funny and entertaining. I'd say this one is a piece of e-lit rather than a game, as, while its interactive, you can't really change what happens and have no free reign or control with the story, you are just observing the plot unfold. It's also written in a way that only makes sense with the medium that its written in, I don't think you'd get the same effect and pacing from it if you were to write it more traditonally, especially with the phone interface being a big part of the storytelling. 

# Week 5 
## Aarseth's concept of Ergotic Literature
Aarseth’s concept of ergodics challenges traditional ideas of narratives, as it redefines how texts are experienced. According to Aarseth, ergodic literature requires 'nontrivial effort' from the reader to navigate the text, not passively as they would with a regular books, but physically and interactively. This is especially relevant to hypertext, which requires readers to reach conclusions through the choices they make and the links they click on, giving them some control over how the narrative unfolds. I definitely picked this up through my own interactions with E-lit and hypertext so far this semester, as it fundamentally alters the relationship between reader and the work, as well as the reader and the writer. In conventional fiction, the writer controls the structure and pacing and the reader follows, but in hypertext, that structure is no longer fixed. There are multiple possible outcomes, and the reader becomes an active participant in shaping the plot and their own experience. Because of this key aspect that sets e-lit and hypertext apart from regular narrative, rather than seeing it as a new subgenre of writing, Aarseth suggests it belongs to a different mode of literature entirely, redefining storytelling and how we interact with it. This concept of ergodics helps us understand that hypertext excedes linear storytelling, opening up room for reader agency, which is especially valuable when thinking about non-traditional modes of storytelling.

# Week 6 
## Previous student works
### House on the Hill
This work felt a lot like a game, with the E-lit elements a lot less obvious. However, I think what sets it apart from a game is the way it progresses - you navigate with arrow keys and get free rein over the map, but the dialogue and the story is somewhat linear and doesn't really change depending on how you interact with it. I liked the mystery aspect of this piece, especially, with the sound and the visuals that make it feel true to the genre. The format also made sense for the setting, with the ability to walk around the haunted house making it more immersive, like it's a virtual escape room.
### Snow Season
'Snow Season' explores themes of munanity and being trapped, which I especially relate to. I enjoyed the background pictures and how they relate to the piece, with the way the text is configured adding visual interest as well as weight to the piece. Because it's written in Twine, the way you navigate it adds an element of interactivity, though not as much as the other works. This piece is meant to be observed and interacted with emotionally, just like regular poetry, but has elements of digital literature to help you engage with the prose better.
### Stay strong xx
The emotional weight of this work, like 'Snow Season', was enhanced by its medium. The use of images and sounds, the hypertext elements, and the decision-making oppurtunities make the experience of interacting with it more personal, which is also aided through the use of second person perspective; you really emphathise with the writer in a deeper way than you would if this was traditonal literature. The author also uses the phases of cancer treatment as 'chapters' of the story, which helps progress the narrative and keep it somewhat linear.
